Identity Adobe Arial www.vintageccg.com 1 Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1. 3b Babylon 5 Collectible Card Game - Psi Corps - v 1.3b Includes Severed Dreams and Wheel of Fire Rules Updates March 10, 2000 Credits Game Design : Ran Ackels, Edi Birsan, Paul W. Brown III, John Hart, Dav id Hewitt, John Myler and Kevin Tewart Produced By : Paul W. Brown III Developed By : Dave Hewitt, Kevin Tewart, John Hart, John Myler and Mike Hummel Graphic Design : Ran Ack els Graphics Assistance : David R. Taylor Jr. Typesetting/Layout : Dave Hewitt The Warner Bros. Team : Michelle Suc illon, Lauren Goldman, S uk Sung. Special Thanks To : J. Michael Straczynski, Doug Netter, John Copeland, Larry DiTillio, George Johns en, Mira Furlan, Ed Wasser, Claudia Christian, Walter Koenig, Robin Atkin - Downes, Tim Choate, Doug Williamson, all our Rangers, the Babylonian Produ ctions staff and the many other tremendous creative talents that have collaborated to make the Babylon 5 Universe a reality. Based on the original television series created by J. Michael Straczynski. TM & (c) 1999 Warner Bros. Game Design (c) 1999 Precedenc e Publishing. Patents Pending. Adobe UCS Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 2 I. Introduction Prologue It is the dawn of the Third Age of Mankind, the middle of the Twenty - third Century. Man is far from alone in the universe. A hundred years ago, Humanity made contact with its firs t alien civilization - or more to the point, they made contact with Humanity. Before the arrival of the Centauri, Humans were confined to their own solar system and forced to use slow sleeper ships to explore the universe. The Centauri gave Earth the stars , offering the use of their jumpgates: portals into hyperspace - and later, taught Humans how to make their own. In the eighty years that followed, Humanity flexed its muscles, expanding outward at a rapid pace. When a group of less powerful races was atta cked by an invading army, Earth came to their aid, cementing its role as a major galactic power, if a young, brash one. The wave of euphoria came crashing down when Humanity made contact with a mysterious race called the Minbari. The Earth - Minbari War bega n with a misunderstanding between the Minbari and a human captain too quick on the trigger. Thanks to bad luck or something darker, Earth's first meeting with the Minbari resulted in the death of their supreme religious and political leader. To the Minbari what followed was a Holy War, vengeance for the murder of their spiritual leader. Earth was no match for the technologically superior Minbari, and they easily beat mankind back to their home planet. Then, without explanation, as their ships closed in on E arth and wiped out the last desperate defenses, the Minbari halted their advance and surrendered. Only an elite few knew why. The Babylon Project was conceived in the aftermath of the war. Modeled after the United Nations, it would be a meeting place, a ne utral ground where the powers could meet and work out their differences  peacefully. The first three Babylon Stations were sabotaged in mid - construction. The fourth was completed, but just as it was about to go online, it vanished without a trace. The Earth government would have stopped there, but some of the alien governments, seeing the value of a meeting ground, offered financial assistance for the construction of a fifth station. Naturally, there were strings attached. Babylon 5 is the story of the last of the Babylon Stations, the last hope for a galaxy without war. It begins in the year 2257 with the opening of the Babylon 5 Station. Game Overview The Babylon 5 Collectible Card Game ("B5 CCG") is a game for two to five players (or more, using the altern ate faction rules). Each player chooses a different Race (Narn, Centauri, Minbari, Human or the League of Non - Aligned Worlds) and is in control of the ambassador of this race. With this ambassador you will build a Faction , then set an Agenda for your Facti on to pursue. By fulfilling your Faction's Agenda and accumulating Power , you will lead your race to a position of dominance and win the game. You may recruit allies (character cards) from among the other races, or try to rely only on your own people. Will you use diplomacy intrigue, or military conquest as your stepping stones to power? Will you rise to dominance on your own merits, or will you seek the aid of an elder race, like the Shadows? If you do, beware, for there may be a price! Choose your actions wisely Your decisions decide the fate of the galaxy. Cards and Tokens Each player will need his own deck of cards (each of a different race, if not using alternate faction rules) in order to play. Each player may either use a standard starter deck, or bui ld a customized deck, drawing from any of the cards in his entire collection. Customizing your own deck is one of the many interesting challenges of the game. Each player must play with a minimum of 45 cards in his deck. There is no maximum number of cards that may be in a play deck. You can purchase the B5 CCG in starter decks of 60 cards. Five distinctive starter decks are available to purchase - each one tailored for a different race. In addition, a supplemental ("Opposing Factions") deck Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 3 is available wh ich allows multiple players of the same race. Each race - specific starter deck includes a card representing the Ambassador as one of 50 fixed starter common cards tailored for that race's use. To make each starter deck unique, an additional 10 uncommon and rare cards have been randomly inserted into each starter deck. To further customize your deck, you can buy Booster packs of randomly assorted cards. The Deluxe Edition boosters contain 8 cards inserted in approximately the following rarities: 1 rare, 2 unc ommon and 5 common cards per pack. Other expansions now available include the Shadows, the Great War and Psi Corps. Each expansion features hundreds of new cards, which work together with your starter decks to enhance your game experience, and let you furt her explore the depth of the Babylon 5 universe. Furthermore, each expansion features a limited number of character cards signed by one of the stars of the show. Such cards are usually inserted approximately 1 per case of boosters (about 1 per 24 display b oxes), but this may vary by expansion. See the expansion packaging for details. Please note that the stated odds of finding cards reflect the average over the entire print run - the stated ratio of card rarities is not guaranteed to exist within an individ ual package, box or case. In addition to a game deck, each player needs a number of different small tokens to play. Such tokens are used to keep track of influence, damage to characters and fleets, the tension between races, etc. You can use any small item readily at hand for tokens - e.g., glass stones, pennies, colored beads or paper clips. Anatomy of a Card Cards used in the B5 CCG can be grouped into a number of general Card Types including a new card type for the Great War: Character cards: e.g., "John Sheridan" or "Delenn". Group cards: e.g., "Psi - Corps Intelligence" or "ISN". Fleet cards: e.g., a "Grey Council Fleet". Location cards: e.g., the planet "Earth". Enhancement cards: e.g., "Mass Drivers", which improves a fleet's combat effectiveness. Event cards: e.g., "Underworld Connections", which temporarily boosts Intrigue abilities. Agenda cards: e.g., "Revenge", which rewards the Narn for damaging the Centauri. Conflict cards: e.g., "Limited Strike", which initiates a small military engagement. After math cards: e.g., "War Hero", which improves a militarily successful ambassador. Contingency cards: e.g., "Lost Opportunities", which can block an action attempted by another player. Each type of card has a different background, making it easier to distin guish cards of that type and to sort them from one another as necessary. All cards share the same basic anatomy as follows (for more information see "Card Details"): Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 4 Card Diagram 1. Name : The Name tells you who or what a card represents. 2. Influence C ost : The amount of influence required to bring a card into play. 3. Card Type : The card type (character, fleet, location, etc.) is listed here. In addition, other restrictions on card play may be listed here. 4. Abilities : Character, fleet and location c ards may also have Ability ratings. Characters may possess Diplomacy , Intrigue , Psi or Leadership abilities. This rating represents not just personal ability, but also the actions of his unseen helpers and supporters. Fleets and locations possess Military ability. Characters and fleets with no listed rating in a particular ability have a rating of zero (0) in that ability. On the cards, Diplomacy is Green (Top), Intrigue is Blue (Upper Middle), Psi is Purple (Lower Middle) and Leadership is Orange (or Milit ary, which is Red, for fleets and locations) at the Bottom of the cards. Note : Psi cannot be raised from a base of 0 unless a card specifically increases Psi. Cards which raise "any one ability or "all abilities" do not increase Psi from a base of 0. 5. E ffects : Any special rules and game effects for a card are detailed here. Furthermore, any special rank or title initially possessed by a character (such as "Grey Council Member" or "Earth President") is listed here in bold type. Most ranks and titles affec t game play only when called upon by the effects of another card. Notable exceptions are "Starting Ambassador" and "Ambassador's Assistant". The terms Multiple, Limited and Unique, and terms in Boldface , are irrevocable (see glossary). 6. Marks : Some char acters are "Marked"; their lives inextricably linked with great forces in the universe in a way and for purposes that may defy normal comprehension. A player's faction cannot possess both Shadow and Vorlon marks at the same time (these marks are "opposing" ). Thus if a faction has already acquired at least one of either mark, they may not gain any marks of the opposing kind. Otherwise a faction may possess any number of marks in any combination. Any marks initially possessed by a character will be shown here . E.g., a character could possess two marks of Shadow and a mark of Doom. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 5 Marks of Strife increase the damage a character deals during an attack. The effects of other marks can only be discovered by reading the text on certain cards. If a card provides mar ks to one or more characters, the marks it provides will be shown here for reference. 7. Caption : Captions are intended to provide information and insight into the Babylon 5 universe. They have no effect on game play. Influence Each player has an Influence Rating which represents the raw strength of his faction. It starts at 4. During each turn, players may apply influence (up to the total of their Influence Ratings) as a means to further their aims. Each point of Influence Rati ng also counts equally towards the Power total needed to win the game (see "Victory"). Influence applied during a player's turn is restored at the beginning of the following turn. Influence may be permanently gained or lost through game play, altering a pl ayer's Influence Rating, often as the result of a Conflict. A faction with an Influence Rating less than ten may also choose to "Build Influence" by Rotating an Inner Circle Character to perform a "Build Influence" action and applying 3 influence (see "Act ions"). "Building Influence" will increase a faction's Influence Rating by one. In addition to the players, there are other forces in the galaxy that may accumulate influence: the galaxy's two most pivotal elder races (the Shadows and the Vorlons) as well as the Babylon 5 station itself. The Influence Ratings of these non - player forces represent how much impact they currently have on galactic affairs. As these Influence Ratings climb, certain cards become more potent. As Babylon 5's influence grows, the gal axy becomes a safer place, some players will find a wider range of actions available, and wars become less common. Victory A player's base Power is equal to his current Influence Rating. Other cards in play may add additional points to a player's Power tot al under conditions specified on the card itself. At the start of game play, each player is eligible to win by scoring a Standard Victory . To score a Standard Victory, a player must either: 1. Have 20 Power, and more than any other player; or 2. If Babylon 5 has an Influence Rating of 20 or more at the end of a turn - and one player eligible to win a standard victory is leading in Power - then that player wins. If either the Shadows or the Vorlons reach an Influence Rating of 20 or more, then the Shadow War begins. During the Shadow War, no player may achieve a Standard Victory. Instead, they must score a Major Victory to win. Other cards in play may also make a player ineligible to win a Standard Victory (e.g., playing a Major Agenda, in particular). In suc h cases a player must score a Major Victory to win. To score a Major Victory, a player must either: 1. Have at least 20 Power, and at least 10 more than each other player; or 2. Fulfill other requirements on a "Major Agenda" card he has brought into play. I I. Preparing to Play Customizing Your Game Deck For each race you wish to play you may want to customize a unique play deck. Choosing from all the cards in your collection, each of your play decks will contain only select cards; keeping in mind that some Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 6 c ards will work better in combination with each other, and that some cards are restricted to a given race. A good way to start building a deck is to choose one or more specific agenda cards and then select other cards based upon how well they will support y our agenda(s). There is no limit to the number of cards you may have in any one of your play decks. However, the following restrictions do apply to every deck you build:  Each must have a minimum of 45 cards.  It may have a maximum of 3 of any card.  must co ntain one Starting Ambassador. A few tips on deck building...  First choose a Starting Ambassador card.  Next choose at least one agenda card.  Next eliminate all cards that list in the card type a race different from your starting ambassador.  Choose charact er cards mostly from the race of your ambassador or that are neutral. To play character cards from any other race will require you to apply double their printed influence cost. Before you can play you'll need a few opponents to play with. Your opponents w ill each need their own deck of cards for a race different from the one you intend to control (unless you are using Alternate Faction rules). If you have an established game group that includes players with their own B5 CCG decks then you are all set to go . If not, you might wish to customize more than one deck, so that your friends who don't have their own decks yet can use one of yours when you teach them how to play. This approach has the added benefit of giving you a chance to see your own decks in acti on, from the perspective of an opponent. It's a great way to get ideas for refining your decks before you play with them yourself. Choosing Your Race Once you have a deck ready and have arranged for a group to play with, each player must next choose a race to control. No two players may control the same race in the same game, unless you are using the alternate faction rules. In the premier edition of the B5 CCG, there are four player races to choose from: Earth Alliance, Centauri Republic, Minbari Federatio n, and the Narn Regime. The Great War expansion adds the League of Non - Aligned Worlds as a fifth "race". The race you choose will determine your ambassador and your race's initial level of tension towards each of the other player races. Many cards, especia lly fleet and location cards, may only be played by the appropriate race. Naturally, you will also find it easier to recruit members of your own race to support your faction. Earth Alliance : As the Human ambassador, you represent the Earth Alliance, a newc omer to the galactic stage that now plays a central role in its affairs. The Earth ambassador also commands Babylon 5 and is the chairperson of the political body known as "The Council of Races" (see voting). Minbari Federation : As ambassador for the Minba ri Federation, you are a member of an old and highly spiritual race. You possess superior knowledge and technology with which to advance your (often mysterious) causes. Narn Regime : As the Narn Regime ambassador, you are born of a reptilian race, easily pr ovoked to battle, and too often the victims of Centauri oppression. A warlike nature and supreme ability to endure hardship will help you win freedom, honor and revenge for your long suffering people. Centauri Republic : As ambassador of the Centauri Republ ic, you have been the symbol of a decadent and declining empire - until now. You will utilize superior guile to reverse this decay and restore your race to its former glory. League of Non - Aligned Worlds : While individually less powerful, the united League represents a diverse and growing galactic power. Your Starting Hand Each player selects their starting hand of four cards, rather than drawing them at random.  One card must be a starting ambassador card: Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 7 Race Card Name Earth Alliance: Jeffrey Sinclair C entauri Republic: Londo Mollari Minbari Federation: Delenn Narn Regime: G'kar Non - Aligned: See special Non - Aligned rules  The other three remaining cards may not be of the same type - you may not have more than one additional character, one fleet and one agenda, for example. Shuffle & Cut All players shuffle their decks thoroughly and allow an opponent to cut their deck. Preparing the Playing Field The Playing Field is the area between the players, where the game will be played. First, set out one tra cking sheet with the non - player forces side up between the players. Each player should also have an individual tracking sheet. These sheets will be used to track the Influence of major non - player forces, as well as each race's unrest and tension toward the others. Next, all players should play their starting Ambassador cards down in front of them. During the course of the game, as aftermath cards are played with lasting effects, they should be placed underneath the affected card with the title showing, or fanned to the left of the card they modify if they are too numerous. The row with your Ambassador is known as the Inner Circle of your faction. Any new characters Promoted to the Inner Circle should be placed to the right of your Ambassador to signify t heir status. Agenda cards should be played to the left of your ambassador, and any other cards that are played with lasting effects should be played to the left of each player's agenda. New character, group, location, and fleet cards are played to the row below your ambassador. Cards in this row are called Supporting Cards . Such cards are considered part of your faction. However, characters in this second row are not considered to be part of your faction's Inner Circle. Supporting character cards may, in th e course of game play, be Promoted to the Inner Circle. Set Tension Tokens The status tracker has several rows of boxes to track the relative tension of your race towards each of the others. A lower number in each case describes a lower level of hostility between the races whereas high numbers speak of great anger and tension. In the beginning, Narn/Centauri tension starts at 4, the Human/Centauri tension begins at 1, the Human/Minbari tension is at 3, and all other tensions begin at 2. (The initial tension levels for each race are on the status tracker sheet for reference) Although the tension of two races toward each other begin at the same level, during the course of the game these tensions may diverge (therefore, Human tension toward the Minbari may or m ay not remain the same as Minbari tension toward the Humans). Some cards refer to "mutual tensions" in which case the tension of each race toward the other is considered. Others only raise, for instance, your tension toward another race; in this case your race's tension toward another race will change, but theirs toward your race will not. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 8 For example, the Human toward the Minbari (and Minbari tension toward the Humans) starts at 3. A card which "increases Human/Minbari tensions" will cause both to increase to 4. A later card which lowers "Human tension toward the Minbari" will return the Human tension to 3, but Minbari tension toward the Humans would remain unchanged at 4. In addition, each player should mark their starting unrest at "1". This represents pu blic and/or governmental resistance to the actions of the player's faction. Tension and unrest range from a 1 to 5. Any effect which would raise tension or unrest above 5 raises it to 5 instead; and any effect which would lower tension or unrest lowers it to a minimum of 1. Set Influence Tokens Each player should now take four tokens and place them just above their Ambassador. This represents the starting Influence Rating of each faction. Whenever a player applies influence during a turn, the influence appl ied should be moved to a spot just below the ambassador. This is not a permanent expenditure of influence. At the beginning of each turn, influence applied during the previous turn is restored by moving the applied influence tokens back to a spot above the ambassador. Note that "applying" and "restoring" influence is quite different from "gaining" or "losing" it. Each influence "gained" permanently increases a faction's Influence Rating, i.e., the total number of tokens available to be applied. This is sign ified by placing another token above a faction's ambassador card. Conversely, to signify a "loss" of influence one token should be removed from play, preferentially from out of a player's applied influence or otherwise from the available influence above th e ambassador card. A faction's Influence Rating may never be reduced below three. At this time, you should also place 4 tokens in the Babylon 5, Shadow and Vorlon Influence sections on the status tracker page. Influence Changes When a player's Influence Ra ting is changed by a one - time occurrence, for example, an event, a conflict, or some other triggered effect, the player usually "gains" or "loses" influence. When a faction gains 1 influence, the faction's Influence Rating increases by 1 and the new influe nce is immediately available to be applied. Some cards can alter or reverse this kind of effect. A player's Influence Rating may also be directly altered while an ongoing effect is in play, for example, by the effect of some characters or enhancements. Whe n this occurs, the Influence Rating is altered and the bonus takes effect immediately (just as if the effect had been a gain or a loss). However, this kind of alteration in the Influence Rating is an ongoing effect, and is therefore harder to disrupt. A di rect change in Influence Rating is not a "gain" or a "loss". For example, Dave, John, Paul and Ran are taking their turns. Dave rotates a character to build influence. John sponsors Kha'Mak, who increases John's Influence Rating while he is in play. Paul purges a Destiny Mark and plays Short Term Goals, which causes him to gain +1 influence. Ran now plays Trivial Gains, which reverses an influence gain that took place on the same turn. Ran cannot target Dave, since building influence is a protected action which directly alters his Influence Rating. Likewise, he cannot target John, since while Kha'Mak is in play the bonus is provided; it is an ongoing effect that directly alters his Influence Rating, not a one - time gain. He therefore targets Paul, whose even t card was a unique occurrence, Paul's one - time gain is lost. When a player acquires temporary influence (including the ability to apply "additional influence"), that influence may be applied during a turn to sponsor new cards, pay for events, buy cards a t the end of the turn, etc. However, the additional influence does not alter the faction's Influence Rating. That means, the additional influence is not transferable, cannot be lost, and does not count toward victory. For example, A Moment of Beauty gives a player 3 additional (temporary) influence which can be applied on the next turn. This influence may not be transferred, and does not alter anyone's Influence Rating or power. Beginning Play Play now begins in initiative order Since all cards are "Ready" and no one has applied any influence, start with the first Conflict round. The player with the lowest initiative may declare a conflict first. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 9 Playing "Fast and Loose" and Resolving Timing Disputes Some players may wish for a faster game, under friendly c onditions. If all players agree, rounds need not be performed in initiative order; instead, players can declare conflicts, or take actions, or play aftermath cards simultaneously. When playing in this fashion, only proceed from one round (or step) to the n ext once all players declare they wish to take no more actions. Any time during the game that a timing dispute arises (e.g., one player feels that he was not given sufficient time to react to an opponent's play), whether playing "fast and loose" or not, al l players must halt play. (A player may preemptively stop play if he feels a timing dispute is about to arise.) Play then proceeds by initiative, beginning with the lowest player in Initiative Order. Each player is given a chance to act (in whatever manner is appropriate, whether that is to declare a conflict, or play an aftermath, or reveal a contingency) or pass. This continues until all players pass in a row (unless otherwise specified, for example during the "declare conflicts" round). At that point, no rmal play resumes (if playing "fast and loose", the fast and loose rules are restored). Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 10 III: Playing the Game Overview The game is played in turns. Each turn is sub - divided into rounds. In each round, every player acts simultaneously. This means that eac h player may perform any and all allowable game activities within that round before anyone may proceed to the next round. Within the Action round all players act, but play proceeds in initiative order, i.e., each player alternates playing cards and taking actions, in Initiative Order, from lowest to highest. The higher a player's Influence Rating, the higher his initiative. Players with the same Influence Rating are ranked in initiative order by comparing the abilities of their ambassadors, with higher abil ities equaling higher initiative. Compare abilities in the following order: Diplomacy, Intrigue, Psi, then Leadership. During some other rounds, where some players may wish to see what another player does before completing their play, play can also proceed in initiative order, though, again, all players will act within each round. Each turn, play progresses through the following rounds: READY CONFLICT ACTION AFTERMATH DRAW Each game turn ends after all players have drawn new cards in the Draw round. A new turn then begins with the Ready round until one player claims victory. Note that some rounds are further broken down into individual steps (see below). As with rounds, all players must complete all activities within a step before play progresses to the ne xt step. Narrating the Story The B5 CCG is designed to allow you to tell your own version of the story of the last of the Babylon Stations. This is a game about a story; about the pivotal events that take place, and how they affect the lives of individual people acting out their parts on a galactic stage. When you are playing, it's fun to help tell the story of your faction and your characters. Players are strongly encouraged to narrate the actions of their characters. As you play cards from your hand, you should briefly explain how your card play affects the story...or explain how your characters feel about the card play of your opponents. For example: The Centauri plays Test Their Mettle and targets the Narn. He says (in a bad imitation of Londo's accent) : "Now it is time for the Centauri Republic to rise up and reclaim its rightful place in the galaxy. For too long have we suffered the unjust advances of the Narn Regime. No more!" The Narn replies, "The treachery of the Centauri is legendary. We shall no t sit idly by while you play diplomatic games, and we urge the rest of the galaxy not to be taken in by Centauri lies. If they deal with us to their satisfaction, be assured they will soon turn their attention to the rest of you! We stand prepared to defen d our borders with steel, not words. Let it be on your head, Mollari!" The Ready Round Step 1. Ready Cards Any cards which are rotated (set on their side, to show that they acted during the last turn) are now made ready (set upright) again. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 11 Step 2. Restore influence All influence that was applied last turn is restored and moved back above each player's ambassador card to show that it is once again available. Each player should now have as available influence his entire Influence Rating. Step 3. Determine In itiative Initiative order for the turn is now determined. Players are ranked by Influence Rating. The player with the lowest Influence Rating must act first during each round, followed by the second lowest, and so on. Thus, the player with the most influen ce acts last in the turn, letting him see the initial actions of his opponents before making his decisions. If two players are tied in influence, the player with the highest Diplomacy on his ambassador wins (acts last). Further ties are resolved by compari ng the ambassadors' Intrigue, Psi, then, if necessary, Leadership. If two players are still tied, determine initiative order between them randomly. Tip: While allowable, it is often unwise to start a conflict early in the game. You may want to hold on to your conflicts and concentrate on constructive actions like building Influence and/or sponsoring characters during the first several turns. Sustained Actions A player may choose to leave a card he controls rotated, to show that it is continuing the same a ction. This is known as Sustaining an action. This is usually done with a card which may rotate to provide a bonus to another card. E.g., a player may rotate a character with Leadership to increase the Military rating of one of his fleets. If he wishes to leave that character in charge of that fleet, he need not ready the character, and the fleet continues to receive the boost to its Military rating (possibly keeping it from being discarded). For convenience, you may wish to place cards that are sustaining with the cards they modify (or vice versa). If a card which provides a bonus until the end of the turn sustains its action, there is no "gap" during which the bonus expires before being renewed (this is occasionally relevant for determining whether or not a card becomes neutralized). To determine whether an action can be sustained, there are a few guidelines. To be sustainable, an action must have no other cost besides rotating a card - there should be no influence cost, no marks need to be purged, etc. In addition, the action should provide a bonus to a card's ability. However, any effect which states that it lasts while a card remains rotated can be sustained. Ready and Rotated Cards Most cards may only act (rotate) once per turn. Cards set upright are re ferred to as 'Ready' to act. During each turn, especially in the action round, cards may perform various actions that require them to rotate. Once a card is rotated, it may not take any action that requires it to rotate later in the same turn. Note: A rea dy but neutralized card is only considered ready for healing actions. It may not be used to sponsor a card or be targeted by cards that require their target to be ready, unless they also specify the target can be a neutralized card. The Conflict Round Step 1. Declare Conflicts During this step, each player (in initiative order) may declare one conflict. To declare a conflict, place a conflict card face down. Players with the option to declare conflicts by other means, such as by using an agenda, may do so n ow. Obviously, conflicts declared in this fashion are impossible to conceal. Influence applied to initiate an agenda conflict is placed on top of the agenda. This makes it clear to all players that the agenda - based conflict has been initiated. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 12 Step 2. Reve al and Initiate Conflicts After all players have decided whether or not to declare a conflict, reveal all face - down conflicts. The conflicts are now initiated (in the same sequence in which they were declared). To do so, any further required details (such as the target of the conflict) must be declared at this time. E.g., the "Kidnapping conflict" targets a specific opposing character who must be named when the conflict is revealed. A Sample Conflict Round There are four players, one Minbari, one Human and one Centauri and one Narn. The Minbari and the Humans are at war. The Minbari player, acting first, declares a war conflict. The Centauri player, acting second, applies 7 influence and initiates an Intrigue conflict using his agenda, Knowledge is Power . The Narn player declines his chance to play a conflict. The Human player selects and plays, face down, a conflict card. Then, play proceeds to step 2. The Minbari player decl ares that his war conflict is an attempt to conquer Mars Colony (it is a war conflict that targets a location, and the location is to be "Mars Colony"). The Centauri declares that his conflict targets the Minbari player. The Human reveals his conflict is a bid for Non - Aligned Support for any upcoming Babylon 5 votes. Play then proceeds to the Actio n Round. The Action Round A player may only perform one action at a time. The player with the lowest initiative acts first. Then the player with the next lowest initiative becomes eligible to perform one action, and so on, until all players have acted once . The player with the lowest initiative is then eligible to take a second action and the cycle repeats as many times as necessary. A player may pass as his action at any time. Play continues in this fashion until all players have passed consecutively. A pl ayer who passes may act later in the action round, unless the round has ended. Once every player has passed in a row, the action round ends immediately. Reminder: A rotated character may not rotate to take another action. Performing an action consists of doing anything that requires you to play or rotate a card, or to apply influence. Actions that may be taken include:  Sponsor a Supporting Card.  Promote a Supporting Character to the Inner Circle.  Rotate to Build Influence .  Use an Effect Which Req uires Rotating a Card.  Lead a Fleet.  Support or Oppose a Conflict.  Attack a Conflict Participant.  Play an Event or Contingency .  Discard, Replace, Reveal or Sponsor an Agenda .  Heal a Character.  Repair a Fleet or Location.  Offer Influence to a Mercenary.  Pass . For details concerning how each type of action may be performed see the "Action Details" section of the rules. The Resolution Round Once all players have passed, the Resolution round begins. The following steps are carried out for each conflict. The conflict(s) initiated by the player with the lowest initiative order is resolved first, then any Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 13 conflict initiated by the next player, and so on. If one player initiated more than a single conflict (which is only possible through use of som e cards) then he designates which of his conflicts will be resolved first. In addition to the rules below, see also the rules given under Conflict and Aftermath cards. Step 1. Resolve Current Conflict To resolve the current conflict, add up the total abili ty (as modified by any cards, damage, or effects currently in operation) applied in support and compare it with the total applied in opposition. Total modified support must exceed total modified opposition for the conflict to succeed; otherwise it fails. O nce resolved, apply any effects determined by the success or failure of the conflict as written on the card. Note: a character or fleet whose ability changed over the course of the turn (e.g., due to an action card or by suffering damage through an attack) applies his modified ability, not the ability he had when he originally supported the conflict. Neutralized characters apply no ability toward the conflict. In addition, conflicts which give a bonus to some or all participant characters (for example, doub ling their ability) have this bonus applied during resolution (these bonuses do not affect characters during the action round, for attacks, etc.). Any cards whose effects are triggered by a conflict resolving (for example, some contingency cards or homewor lds) have their effect applied immediately after resolving the conflict. Step 2. Play Aftermath Cards After the effects of the current conflict have been applied, all players have the opportunity to play any valid aftermath cards they may have in their han ds. Restrictions to aftermath play are listed on the card. As is the case for any timing questions, if more than one player wishes to play aftermaths, play proceeds in initiative order, with each player having an opportunity to play one aftermath or pass, until all players pass consecutively. Aftermath cards may normally be played only upon the faction that initiated the just resolved conflict (the "Initiator"). However, if "Participant" is one of the Play Conditions, then appropriate aftermath cards may ta rget cards in play for any faction that either Supported, Opposed or Attacked during the conflict, not just the faction that initiated the conflict. Aftermath cards that list "Won" or "Lost" as part of their card type refer to whether the Initiator succeed ed or failed in the conflict. Conflicts in which a non - initiator "side" gains more support that the initiator's "side" are considered to have been "lost" by the Initiator. Many aftermaths may also only be played if the conflict was of a certain type, Milit ary, Diplomatic, etc. Example: An initiator's Diplomacy type conflict gives him an advantage if he can win with five more support than the total opposition. The initiator succeeds with only three more support than opposition. Although falling short for pur poses of the conflict card's effect text, the initiator is still considered to have "won". Aftermath cards of the following types may be played on his faction: "Any Diplomacy", "Won Diplomacy", "Any Conflict", and "Won Conflict" (whether or not these after math cards list "Participant" as one of their restrictions.) The text of an aftermath may further limit the valid targets. It may, e.g., limit it to "characters who supported the conflict" or "characters who attacked during the conflict". Although some Aft ermath cards have immediate effects and are then discarded, many are permanent; they are placed with the card (or other target) they have been played on and remain in play until some other card removes their effects. Only one of each named aftermath may be in play on the same target. For ease of viewing, it is suggested that an ambassador's aftermath cards be laid out to the left of the character. Aftermaths which occur and are then discarded should only be discarded at the end of the aftermath step for tha t conflict. Therefore, a "discard after play" aftermath can only be played once on any given target for each conflict. If an aftermath does not specify its target, then it targets all cards (or factions, etc.) that it affects directly. For example, an afte rmath which inflicts 1 point of damage on every participant fleet targets all participant fleets in the conflict. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 14 Participants Any fleet that supports, opposes or attacks during a conflict becomes a "participant fleet". Any character who supports, opposes, attacks, or leads a fleet that participates during a conflict becomes a "participant character". Tip: Aftermath cards played on another player's cards or faction should be played upside - down (with regard to that player) to indicate that the card does not belong to him. This will reduce confusion, allowing the card to be easily returned to its owner once the game ends, or the card's effect expires. Step 3. Discard Conflicts and Aftermaths If the conflict was initiated through the use of a conflict card, th e card is now placed on the discard pile. Aftermath cards which are to be discarded after play are also discarded at this time. If any unresolved conflicts remain, after all players have played all of the aftermath cards they wish to, resolve the next conf lict. If not, then play proceeds to the Draw round. The Draw Round Step 1. Discard Neutralized Supporting Cards Discard all neutralized (face down) supporting cards. Do not discard neutralized Inner Circle cards. Step 2. Discard Cards from Hand All player s may discard as many cards as they wish from their hand. All discards must be placed face - up next to a players draw deck. Players may examine each other's discard piles at any time. Step 3. Draw Free Card All players draw one free card. Players who draw t hrough their entire play deck are considered to be out of new options and may not reshuffle their discards or draw. If a player's draw pile is empty when he must draw at least 1 card, he must instead discard 1 Inner Circle character. If a player cannot dis card an Inner Circle character, he loses the game, and ceases play. Note: Ambassador cards may never be discarded. Thus, if a player has no Inner Circle characters other than his ambassador and he cannot draw, he must forfeit the game. Step 4. Buy More Car ds All players with influence remaining may draw another card for each 3 influence they apply for this effect. Step 5. Check Victory Conditions All players check to see if they have fulfilled the requirements for victory. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 15 IV: Card Details Status Tracker C ard Enclosed with the Great War Starter Decks is a Status Tracker (the "Politics Tracker Sheet"). The "Non - Player Forces side is used to track the relative Influence Ratings of the Babylon 5 Station as well as the Elder races of Shadow and Vorlon. The othe r side of the sheet has boxes for tracking the tension of your race towards the others, as well as the degree of unrest for that race. Some players find it more convenient to use their own, customized status trackers. Character Cards Character cards repres ent those exceptional individuals destined to play a significant role in galactic events. Unless otherwise specified, all character cards are Limited , i.e., only one copy of the card may be in play at any given time (no player may play another copy of the same card while one copy is in play). Character cards may be either Loyal to one race, or may be Neutral . Loyal characters have their race listed as part of their card type and are most cost effective to bring into play for the player controlling the same race. Neutral characters are cost effective for all players to sponsor regardless of the race they control. "Neutral" is not a race, and Neutral characters are not loyal to any race. Note that "Non - Aligned" IS a race name which refers to a variety of races collectively grouped as members of the League of Non - Aligned Worlds. Bringing Characters into Play All non - ambassador characters are initially brought into play as Supporting Characters , though most may be Promoted to the level of the Inner Circle during the course of play. You bring a new supporting character into play by Sponsoring him. Sponsoring a new supporting character or promoting a supporting character to your Inner Circle requires rotating an existing member of your Inner Circle. Sponsoring loyal or neutral characters requires applying their listed influence cost. Sponsoring characters loyal to a different race requires applying double the character's listed influence cost. Promoting any supporting character to your faction's Inner Circle requires applying the same influence cost needed to sponsor them plus one influence for each character that is already part of your Inner Circle (note, however, that a bonus to sponsoring characters does not reduce your cost to promote them unless the card giving the bonus specifically states that it applies to promoting as well as sponsoring). Your Starting Ambassador Since your ambassador is the leader of your faction, he is always considered a member of your faction's Inner Circle. Also, your ambassador card may never be discarded, either voluntarily or otherwise. Likewise, your ambassador can never be Demoted from your faction's Inner Circle to the level of your Supporting Cards. While your ambassador may never be demoted or discarded, he can be Replaced by anot her card (which then becomes your ambassador). Cards with effect text that specifically allow an ambassador card to be "Replaced" are the only allowable means for an ambassador card to discontinue as an Inner Circle character card in play. Note that any ca rd which is designated as a Starting Ambassador cannot be sponsored by any player. Your Ambassador's Assistant Each ambassador's assistant has the ability to enhance one ambassador's ability to function. You may rotate your assistant to give your ambassado r +1 to Diplomacy, Intrigue and Leadership while the assistant remains rotated, or to allow your ambassador, later that turn, to apply 1 influence less than usual when sponsoring a card. You may do this even if your assistant is in another player's faction , though your assistant must, of course, be ready and unneutralized. In addition, each assistant has his own abilities, and may usefully act independently. (Note: an ambassador's assistant is attached to a specific ambassador; so Vir Cotto may not be rotat ed to give a bonus to G'Kar.) An ability bonus conferred by an ambassador's assistant may be sustained. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 16 Group Cards Groups usually represent a large number of minor characters, or an organization. Groups are limited unless otherwise specified. They do not normally have abilities; rather most groups have an effect on play, as listed on the card. Groups are Supporting Cards and may not be promoted to the Inner Circle. If a race name is part of a group's Card Type, then the card is restricted to that race. Onl y the player controlling the race listed as part of the Card Type may bring a restricted card into play. Fleet Cards Fleets represent the primary military capability of each faction. Fleets are limited unless otherwise specified, though only within the sam e race. This means two races may each have a "Homeworld Fleet" in play, but there cannot be 2 copies of the Narn "Homeworld Fleet" in play. Fleets are Supporting cards and may not be promoted to a faction's Inner Circle. Your faction begins the game with n o fleets under its direct control. Like groups, fleets are restricted to a particular race if a race name is part of the Card Type. Location Cards Location is a general term used to describe a wide variety of settings in the game. Control of a location can provide a faction with unique benefits. However, they are also vulnerable to war conflicts. Locations are limited unless otherwise specified and are Supporting cards which may not be promoted to the Inner Circle. Most locations have a military ability rat ing. However, they may only use this ability to oppose conflicts targeting the location. Like groups, locations are restricted to a particular race if a race name is part of the Card Type. Enhancement Cards Enhancements are cards that alter, and normally i mprove, the basic capabilities or effects of other cards. Some enhancements may be played to modify an entire faction, or even the entire game, rather than an individual card. Enhancements may be played during the Action round of the turn and require a spo nsoring character from a faction's Inner Circle to rotate in order to bring them into play. If an enhancement type is present on a card, this indicates what types of targets are valid for that card. An enhancement may be restricted in play to a character, fleet, location, faction, or it could be global, affecting all players in the game. Restricted enhancements with a specific race listed as part of their card type may only be brought into play using a sponsoring character also of the same specified race, a nd must enhance a target of that race. E.g., a Narn Character enhancement could only be sponsored by a Narn Character, targeting a Narn Character; a Narn Factional enhancement can only be played on the Narn player's faction; it may not be played on any fac tion of another race. Enhancement cards remain in play so long as the game entity they modify remains in play. They are discarded if the card they modify is discarded. For example: if Na'Toth was given the "Book of G'Quan" but later she was discarded, the Book would be discarded at the same time. Enhancements on a location that is captured are discarded. Enhancement cards are not Limited unless it so states on the card. Any card may have more than one enhancement, however, no two copies of the same enhancem ent card may target the same card (or other game entity) at the same time. This is true for the game itself, so there can be only one of any given "global enhancement" in play at a time. (A global enhancement, or a Babylon 5 enhancement, is an enhancement that affects the entire game.) Agenda Cards Agendas are the overall goals of a faction. By playing an agenda card you will often gain additional ways to increase your Influence Rating and/or Power. Agendas may also provide your faction with special options or capabilities. Those agendas with a race name listed as part of their card type are restricted to a faction of that race. You may have only one agenda in play at a time. However, an Inner Circle character may rotate to replace your faction's current age nda or to sponsor a new one if your faction does not currently have an Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 17 agenda card in play. Agendas may be brought into play face - down. Such agendas are called Hidden Agendas and have no effect on play until revealed. A faction may reveal its Hidden Agenda as an action; it then takes effect immediately. Some agenda cards allow your faction to initiate a conflict. Such capability does not, however, increase the number of conflicts that a faction may initiate on the same turn (normally one). Some agendas are noted as Major Agendas as part of their card type. Major agendas cannot be discarded. However, they can be replaced by other major agendas, or by any card which specifically allows their replacement. If you have a major agenda in play, you cannot score a s tandard victory (see "Victory"). Event Cards Event cards are played during the Action Round for the effect written on the card. Playing an event is an action. Its effect is immediate upon playing of the card. Unless a card specifically states otherwise, an y effect produced by an event which modifies the abilities of another card lasts only until the end of the current turn and then expires. E.g., The "Decisive Tactics" card adds a +2 bonus to a character's Leadership ability, but only for the remainder of t he turn. Event cards may be played on any appropriate target, regardless of which faction controls the target. So, while a card which "adds +1 to a Narn character's Military" must be played on a Narn Character, the target character can be any Narn in play. Once the effects of an event expire, it is placed on the discard pile. Contingency Cards A contingency card is a new card type introduced in the Great War expansion set. As an action, a player may play one contingency card. Each contingency card lists its valid targets. Contingencies may list a card type or race as part of their type; a character contingency can only be played on a character card. Contingencies with a race type may only be played on targets of that race (not necessarily on cards within a f action of that race). Contingencies can only be played on cards you control, unless the contingency specifies otherwise. The contingency card is played, face down, under a valid target. Only the player who played the contingency may examine it while it is in play. Each contingency has a "trigger"; for example, a character contingency could be triggered when the character is attacked. Whenever the trigger condition is met, the player of the contingency may reveal it, and apply its effects. Revealing a contin gency is optional , not required. This may have the effect of preventing or altering an action which is taking place (which is generally the trigger condition), providing a lasting or temporary effect, or any other effect. Read the instructions on the card and carry them out. Once the instructions on a contingency have been carried out (and its lasting effects, if any, have expired) it is placed on the discard pile. For example: "Vicious Blow" is a Character Contingency which reads "Reveal when the character neutralized his target in an attack. The attacked character suffers 2 additional severe damage." When the targeted character attacks and neutralizes an opponent, you may at your option, reveal the contingency If you do, your character inflicts more severe damage than usual to his target. If a contingency's trigger conditions are not met and the card it modifies is discarded, the contingency is discarded as well. Conflict Cards Conflicts represent pivotal dramatic struggles in the Babylon 5 universe. By ini tiating and winning conflicts, factions seek to gain some advantage and progress towards victory. Each faction may normally initiate only one conflict per turn. Conflicts are played during the Conflict round. Characters and fleets may rotate to either supp ort or oppose a given conflict during the action round with their abilities. If a conflict receives more support than opposition, then the faction which initiated it "wins" the conflict. If a conflict receives the same amount or more opposition than suppor t, then the faction which initiated it "loses" the conflict. Conflicts with a race name as part of the card type are restricted to being initiated by the player controlling that race. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 18 Their are four major types of conflicts. Each conflict type is resolved (either supported or opposed) by applying corresponding abilities: Diplomatic Conflict Resolved using Diplomacy ability. Intrigue Conflict Resolved using Intrigue ability. Military Conflict Resolved using Military ability. Psi Conflict Resolved using Psi ability. During the Action round of each turn, characters may rotate to either "support" or "oppose" any conflict currently in play. The final effects of each Conflict are resolved during the Resolution round, in initiative order. Total support and opposi tion numbers are counted, and each conflict is either "won" or "lost". Each point of ability counts as one point of "support" or "opposition" as declared by the acting faction. The total ability applied in support is compared with the total ability applied in opposition. The support must exceed the opposition for the conflict to "succeed" and for the faction initiating the conflict to "win" the conflict. Otherwise the conflict "fails" and the side that initiated the conflict has "lost" the conflict. Charact ers do not have the Military ability, and so may not directly participate in a Military conflict. However, one character per fleet may rotate to add his Leadership Ability to the Military Ability of any fleet belonging to the same faction. Once the outcome of a conflict has been determined, the result of the conflict takes effect as stated on the card. Often, the total ability applied in a conflict is an important factor in determining the conflict's effect on play. The effects of a conflict are applied, an d then Aftermath Cards may be played. After all aftermath cards are played for the conflict, the next conflict is resolved. Some conflicts specify that "any player may be supported in this conflict" This allows each player faction to represent their own "s ide" in the conflict. In such cases, each faction may only apply ability to support any side or to attack other participants. No ability may be applied in opposition. However, each faction may apply ability in support of any side they choose. They are not required to support their own side and may even support different sides with each character or fleet. After ability totals have been determined for all sides, the results are determined in accordance with the text of the conflict card. If the player that i nitiates the conflict has a higher ability total than any other player, then his faction has "won" the conflict for purposes of playing aftermath cards, otherwise his faction has "lost" the conflict. Note that for purposes of Aftermath card play, when a co nflict calls for a "Vote" - voting characters are neither supporting or opposing the conflict itself and therefore are not considered to be Participants in the conflict. Example: "The Immortality Serum" conflict card allows all factions to vie for control of the secret to immortality Whichever faction has the highest total ability supporting its side in the conflict gains influence. For this conflict, each faction is considered a "side" and generates a separate ability total. Any player may rotate character s to support any faction. If the player who initiated the conflict generates the highest total then the conflict was ~ If he did not then the conflict was "lost". Regardless of whether the conflict was "won" or "lost," a side with more total support than a ny other may benefit from the card's effect. Aftermath Cards Following resolution of a conflict, all players may play any number of valid aftermath cards. Aftermath cards reflect the change and growth of characters resulting from their choices and experien ces. They are used to tell a character's story, showing how their life has been affected as a consequence of their actions. Most aftermath cards act like enhancements, i.e., they modify the card they are played on. Like enhancements, they are discarded if the card they modify is discarded. Some aftermath cards cause an immediate effect, such as adding damage to a character or altering a tension level. Immediate effects are not reversed when the aftermath that caused them is discarded. Also, like enhancement s, only one of any given aftermath card may affect a given target at the same time. Each aftermath card lists Play Conditions and may only be played when these conditions are met. If a race name appears as part of the card type, then the aftermath is restr icted to being played on targets in a faction of that race. Unless an aftermath card specifies Participant as part of its Play Conditions, it may Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 19 only target the cards of the faction which initiated the conflict it is being played in response to. Play Cond itions for aftermath cards are defined as follows:  If the player who initiated the conflict won the conflict then aftermath cards that list "Won" may be played.  If the player who initiated the conflict lost the conflict then aftermath cards that list "Los t" may be played. Type of Conflict If a Play Condition gives a Conflict Type (Military, Diplomatic, Intrigue, or Psi), then aftermath cards may only be played following the resolution of a conflict of the appropriate type. Participant If Participant is one of the Play Conditions then appropriate aftermath cards may target cards in play for any faction that either Supported, Opposed or Attacked during the conflict. If a card specifies a "Participant Fleet", then a fleet must have supported, opposed or attack ed during the conflict to be a valid target. If a card specifies a "Participant Character", then a character must have supported, opposed or attacked during the conflict, or led a fleet that participated in the conflict. Remember: Aftermaths can only be pl ayed on the initiating faction unless the card specifies "Participant". Aftermath Example John Initiates a military conflict, and supports it with two fleets. Dave Supports the conflict with one fleet. Paul Opposes the conflict with two fleets. Ran attacks both Dave's fleet and one of Paul's fleets (using 2 different fleets). John eventually wins the conflict. Which aftermath cards can be played on which characters? Military Aftermath John Military Participant Aftermath any faction Won Military Aftermath John Won Military Participant Aftermath any faction Lost (anything) none Won Aftermath John Won Participant Aftermath any faction If the specific aftermath type is "Won Military Participant", but the effect text states it may only be played on "participating characters who led a fleet that opposed the conflict"; it could be played on any character leading one of Paul's fleets (only). If it specifies "Any Participant" but says it can only be played on "participating fleets who attacked" then only Ran's fleets are valid targets. V . Action Details All of the following are valid actions that may be performed during the Action round each turn. Note that any action which requires a card to rotate, or to be ready, requires the card to be both ready and unneutralized, unless otherwise specified. ACTION: Sponsor a Supporting Card. Any character in the Inner Circle may rotate to bring a new supporting Character, Enhancement, Group, Location or Fleet into play from your hand. The new supporting card is plac ed in the Supporting Cards Row, ready to act on the same turn. Your faction must apply the required influence cost listed on the sponsored card being brought into play or this action may not be performed. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 20 Exception: Enhancements might be placed in either the Inner Circle or the Supporting Cards Row depending on their target. Sponsoring Cards with a Race Type. Cards with a race type different from the faction you control may require an increased influence cost to bring into play, or may not be played at a ll:  Characters with a different race name written as part of their card type require a faction to apply double the listed influence cost to sponsor. Neutral characters may be sponsored by any race at no additional influence cost.  Restricted Enhancements may only be sponsored by a character of the listed race, and may only enhance a card of that same race.  Any other type of card with a race name as part of its card type is restricted to that race; i.e., only the player controlling that race may play such cards. ACTION: Promote a Character to the Inner Circle Any character in the Inner Circle may rotate to promote a ready supporting character into the Inner Circle. This is done by moving the target character card from the supporting card row to the row of c ards to the right of the Ambassador (the Inner Circle row). To successfully promote a supporting character, a faction must apply influence equal to the supporting character's influence cost (again, doubled if the character is loyal to a different race) plu s one additional influence for each character that is already a member of your faction's Inner Circle. E.g., if your faction has an ambassador and one other member in its Inner circle, then to promote a character with an influence cost of three would requi re a total of five influence to be applied. Note that a discount to the cost to sponsor a character does not apply to promoting the character unless specifically stated otherwise. ACTION: Rotate to Build Influence. Any faction with an Influence Rating of 9 or less may increase its Influence Rating by 1 by rotating a member of its Inner Circle and applying 3 influence. A new influence token is immediately added to the available influence above that faction's ambassador card. Factions with an Influence Rating of 10 or greater may not use this action. (Though a one - time occurrence, this is a protected action, not an influence "gain".) ACTION: Use an Effect which requires rotating a card Many cards can provide a special effect when they are rotated. You may rota te cards that you have in play to activate these effects. E.g., "Vir Cotto" may rotate to increase Londo's abilities. Thus you can take an action to improve Londo's abilities by rotating Vir. ACTION: Lead a Fleet. A character with Leadership ability may ro tate to add their Leadership ability to the Military ability of one of your faction's fleets. The fleet's Military ability is increased by the character's Leadership ability for as long as the character leads the fleet. Each fleet can only be led by one ch aracter at a time. To keep the playing field organized, you may wish to group fleets with the character leading them (since fleets may not become inner circle characters, there should be no confusion as to which cards are in the inner circle). ACTION: Supp ort or Oppose a Conflict. Characters and fleets (and, in some cases, locations) may rotate to either support or oppose a conflict that has been initiated. Characters cannot normally use Military to support or oppose a conflict. Only cards with a non - zero a bility of the appropriate type may rotate to support or oppose a conflict. E.g., a character with 2 Diplomacy, 3 Intrigue, and no listed Psi ability (0 Psi) could neither support nor oppose a Psi conflict. However they could support or oppose a Diplomatic or Intrigue conflict. The total support and Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 21 opposition for each conflict is equal to the total relevant ability (as possibly modified by other cards in play) from cards rotated to either support or oppose those conflicts. A character, fleet or location whi ch supports or opposes a conflict becomes a Participant in the conflict. A character who supports or opposes a conflict must designate the ability he is using in the conflict (if there is any doubt). ACTION: Attack a Conflict Participant. Cards may rotate to attack another card that has previously rotated to either support, oppose, or attack during a current conflict (but not a character who participated by leading a participant fleet). This does not necessarily represent a direct physical attack on the tar get. Often an "attack" reflects subtle or non - violent measures designed to undermine a target's effectiveness. Covert operations and diplomatic mudslinging are examples of non - physical attacks. Still, when a fleet attacks another fleet the confrontation is very much physical - lives and ships will probably be lost in the struggle! When an attack is declared, the attacking card becomes (and must be eligible to become) a Participant in the conflict. E.g., if a conflict is restricted to Minbari characters, no Narn could attack any participant involved in the conflict. The attacking card must attack with the same ability the target has applied within the current conflict (e.g., Intrigue must be used to attack a character who supported a conflict using Intrigue) . Cards cannot attack if the ability that will be used to make the attack is zero. Neutralized cards (see "The Effects of Damage" below) may not be attacked. You cannot attack a card in your own faction. Resolving Attacks: Both cards (the attacker and the target) inflict Damage to each other equal to their current ability rating. Any card with a Strife Mark adds two points to the amount of damage it inflicts during an attack for each such mark possessed. Each point of damage inflicted to a card should be ma rked by placing a damage token on top of the affected card. The Effects of Damage: For each point of damage on a target, the target's abilities are immediately reduced by one. No ability may be reduced below zero. If a card has received less total damage t han its greatest ability then it remains unneutralized. It can apply its effects as normal and its abilities as modified by the damage. If a card takes damage equal to or greater than its highest ability rating, then the card is Neutralized . A card must ha ve at least 1 point of damage to become neutralized. Neutralized cards are flipped over and a number of damage tokens equal to the amount required to neutralize the card are removed from play. For each point of damage beyond the number required to neutrali ze a card, a token is placed on the back of the card. These tokens are referred to as Severe Damage tokens. The only time normal damage is converted to severe damage is in the act of neutralizing a card. Additional normal damage which is somehow applied to an already neutralized card has no additional effect. Note that a card with abilities that are improved by other cards in play might become neutralized or severely damaged at any time that such bonuses expire. Note also that cards which Sustain their acti on from a previous turn provide a continuous bonus, i.e., their bonus does not expire between turns. Whenever a fleet is neutralized, any character who has rotated to add their Leadership ability to that fleet is also automatically neutralized (flipped ove r). However, characters neutralized in this fashion do not receive any severe damage as a result of damage applied to the fleet they modify. Any card which is neutralized during a turn may not take any more actions during that turn, even if it is somehow r epaired or readied during the turn. Supporting cards will be discarded at the end of the turn if they are still neutralized. A neutralized card is not considered ready for cards which require the target to be ready unless the card specifically states other wise. If a card has an ongoing effect on game play, or provides marks, the effect is not interrupted by neutralization, and the marks are still present in that card's faction. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 22 ACTION: Play an Event or Contingency. Playing an event or contingency card requi res an action. Some event cards are played along with another action, as specified on the card. A contingency card is played face down under another card you control (unless otherwise specified, of course). ACTION: Discard, Replace, Reveal or Sponsor an A genda. Each faction may only have one agenda in play at any given time. To discard an agenda already in play is considered an action. To bring a new agenda into play requires you to rotate a character of your Inner Circle and is also considered to be an ac tion. This agenda may be brought into play face - down, as a hidden agenda. You may reveal your hidden agenda as an action; if the agenda is one you could not sponsor at that time, it is discarded instead. You may replace your agenda, removing your old agend a from the game and replacing it with a new agenda from your hand that you can sponsor. You cannot discard a Major Agenda, and can only replace it with another Major Agenda. You cannot replace an agenda with a hidden agenda. ACTION: Heal a Character. Chara cters who are face up and ready may rotate to remove all damage on that character. Inner Circle cards which are neutralized may rotate to remove one severe damage token, or to be flipped back face - up if no severe damage tokens remain on the card (removing any remaining normal damage tokens which may have somehow been applied). No other neutralized card may normally rotate to heal. If all of a player's Inner Circle characters rotate to heal on the same turn, then the player's ambassador is fully healed (plac ed face - up with no damage or severe damage tokens) at the end of the action round. A player may rotate undamaged character(s) in this case, to represent them providing aid to their ambassador. ACTION: Repair a Fleet or Location. A non - neutralized Fleet or a Location that is damaged may repair any amount of damage. To repair a fleet or location rotate the card and apply one influence per damage token removed. A repair action does not unneutralize a fleet or location, or remove severe damage. ACTION: Offer In fluence to a Mercenary Some cards in the game may be used each turn only by the player who applies the most influence to control them. Such cards are called "Mercenaries". A faction may, as an action, apply influence as a "bid" to control a mercenary card for the current turn or to increase the amount of a previous bid. Mercenaries act after all players have passed, but before the beginning of the Resolution round. Their action is dictated by the faction which applied the most influence during the turn (bid s are cumulative) to control them. ACTION: Pass A player may pass as his action at any time. He may take another action later in the round unless all players pass consecutively, ending the action round. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 23 VI: Additional Rules A Sample Conflict Since Confli cts and their resolution are the most pivotal elements of game play, let's look at a detailed example. John starts a Diplomatic Conflict which requires him to win with 5 more points of support than the total opposition. John has the Inner Circle characters Londo Mollari (4 Diplomacy) & Urza Jaddo (6 Diplomacy), as well as the Supporting character Carn Mollari with a Diplomacy of 1. His opponents are Dave and Paul. Dave has G'Kar with a Diplomacy of 5 and a Strife Mark, while Paul has Delenn with a Diplomacy of 6. All players have 4 influence. John has the lowest initiative and must go first. He does not want to pass without making sure he has at least some support for the conflict, since his opponents might both pass just to see his conflict fail. He does no t want to support the conflict with Urza Jaddo (he wants to keep him as a threat to others), nor does he want to support with Carn Mollari (that card might be too tempting a target for attack, especially since it is only a supporting character). He decides to rotate Londo to support the conflict. Dave goes next, but passes, claiming no interest in the conflict. Paul opposes the conflict with Delenn. The conflict is now failing (6 diplomacy opposed versus 4 diplomacy in support). If Paul had wished, he could have launched a diplomatic attack against Londo with Delenn. This attack would have neutralized Londo and put 2 severe damage tokens on the card's flipped side. But Delenn would sustain 4 damage as well, leaving her vulnerable to being subsequently neutra lized. John does not wish to attack Delenn with Urza Jaddo (which would neutralize them both), so he rotates Urza Jaddo to support the conflict instead (the conflict now has 10 ability in support vs. 6 opposed). Dave takes an unrelated action, rotating a d amaged fleet and applying 2 points of influence to repair 2 damage on that card. Paul, having no appropriate characters remaining, passes. John could pass to end the turn, but he needs to win the conflict by 5 to get the benefit of the conflict. He rotates Carn to support the conflict. Dave suddenly sits up and states "Carn has offended G'Kar by referring to the Narn homeworld as a "wildlife refuge". Dave surprises John by rotating G'Kar to attack Cam. G'Kar will take 1 point of damage, while Cam will take 5 plus 2 for the fact that G'Kar has a Strife Mark. Cam is neutralized, and 6 severe damage tokens are placed on the back of the card. Cam will be discarded during step 1 of the Draw round, since he is a supporting card. With a final Diplomatic total of 4 more support than opposition, John will get no benefit for the conflict during Resolution, although he is considered to have "Won" it for purposes of playing Aftermath cards. John looks at Dave and says with Londo's tone, "There will be an accounting, G'Ka r. Mark my words!" Triggered Effects Some cards in play have ongoing effects which alter the way the game is played. They may require a player to make a decision during another player's action, or even require a card to rotate. When these effects resolve, they do not count as an action for any player. E.g., each player's Homeworld can be rotated to allow that player to gain an additional influence whenever he gains influence from a conflict. Since a player will only gain influence during the Resolution roun d, this effect is triggered during the Resolution round, and the card rotates at that time. Personalities Certain characters in the game are depicted by more than one character card, to represent the growth of the character and his increasing importance du ring the Babylon 5 story. No more than one card representing the same (Limited) personality can be in play at the same time, although you may play a version of a personality if it immediately removes the in - play version of that personality from the game. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 24 F or those unfamiliar with the television program, Jeffrey Sinclair and John Sheridan are not the same personality, nor are Ko'Dath and Na'Toth. However, Jeffrey Sinclair, Valen, and the "Entil'zha" character from the Shadows expansion are all the same perso nality. Note: Each Zathras card represents a different Zathras personality, even if two Zathras characters have the same spelling of their name. Votes Some conflicts and events require a Vote from the Babylon 5 Council of Races. On the Council, there are 5 races whose ambassadors may cast a vote; Earth, Minbari, Centauri, Narn and Vorlon. In addition, the League of Non - Aligned worlds (acting as if it were a single race) may cast one vote to break any tie. Each player may cast his own ambassador's vote. Amba ssadors from races not currently being played are considered to be part of the vote, but by default they abstain. Card status (such as being rotated or neutralized) has no effect on an ambassador's ability to vote, though specific cards may force a change of vote (even upon races not being played). When a vote is called for, each ambassador must vote "Yes", "No", or "Abstain". If there is an Earth Alliance ambassador to Babylon 5 in the game, that player "heads" the council; if not, the player of the card w hich requires a vote "heads" the council. The "head" of the council may call the vote in whatever order he wishes, though players are permitted a short time to confer before voting. There must be at least one more "Yes" than "No" vote for a measure to pass . Some cards may also list other requirements for a vote to succeed. No character or faction becomes a Participant in a conflict simply by the act of voting. States In most cases, the relationship between two races is defined primarily by their tension. Ho wever, through the course of card play, races may enter into additional relationships with each other. Such relationships are called states. The most common states are various forms of alliances, trade pacts (a state of free trade), and war. Most states pr ovide some game - altering abilities while in effect, others allow players of those races to take additional actions. Some cards require a certain state be in effect before they can be played. War Unless otherwise specified, when races enter a state of War , all other states between the races are cancelled (with any penalties applied as indicated on the appropriate cards). For instance, two races in a state of Free Trade who enter a state of War cease being trading partners, and their influence rating is adjus ted accordingly. There are a number of ways races may enter a state of War. Any player whose race is embroiled in a war may always declare a "War Conflict" (no conflict card or influence required) during the conflict round targeting a race with whom they a re at war. A war conflict counts as a player's conflict for the turn. A war conflict may target either the opposing race as a whole or else a specific location in play for a faction of that race. A war conflict is a "Military conflict". If the conflict tar gets a location , and the initiator wins the conflict, he captures the location immediately. All inherent effects and abilities of the location are suppressed (inoperative) upon the location's capture. However, if the location is ever recaptured by the orig inal owner, all its original effects and abilities are immediately restored including the use of its Military ability. Location enhancements are discarded whenever a location is captured (or recaptured). If the conflict targets a race as a whole , resolve t he conflict as follows: If you win the conflict and the conflict is uncontested (all participants in the conflict must have supported the conflict), then the target loses one influence and you gain one influence as the outcome of the conflict. If the confl ict is contested (at least one participant opposed or attacked) then it has no effect. However, aftermath cards will still be valid depending on whether the initiator has "Won" or "Lost". Whenever a War conflict is resolved, the target's tension toward the player who initiated the conflict increases by 1 (to a maximum of 5). Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 25 Unconditional Surrender During the discard round, any player at war may surrender unconditionally. You must surrender to a player of a race with whom you are at war. Pick up your cards and go home. The player you surrender to immediately gains 3 influence. Following surrender, your ambassador will request asylum from any one player of your choice. That player may immediately put a copy of your ambassador card into play as a supporting ch aracter. This card can come from outside his deck, but it must be a duplicate of the version of the ambassador you had in play. The new cards starts "Clean", i.e., any aftermath or enhancement cards are lost. Ambassadors in asylum may not be elevated to th e Inner Circle. If all other players have surrendered, the last remaining player in the game scores a Major Victory. Legal Targets Some cards require you to select a target, be it a character, fleet, faction or race. Unless the card specifies otherwise, or gives an exact target, you must select a target in play, or you cannot play the card. For example: 1. The "Rivalry" aftermath requires you to target two Inner Circle characters, other than the ambassador, controlled by the same player. If no one has two I nner Circle characters besides their ambassador, you cannot play this card. 2. "Test Their Mettle" allows you to test the will of another race, allowing one player to gain influence at the expense of another. You cannot select an unplayed race as your targ et for "Test Their Mettle". Marks Many cards provide marks to characters. E.g., the Agenda "Servants of Order" provides the ambassador of the faction with 1 Vorlon Mark while the agenda is in play. Marks are always considered to be attached to (or gained b y) a character (or, on occasion, a fleet or location). Marks provided to a faction without specifying a target are attached to the faction's ambassador. If a card refers to a player's marks, or a faction's marks, then it includes all marks attached to all characters in that faction. Most cards which require marks to be played include all marks possessed by the faction. E.g., if the Minbari player wished to play the card "You Are Not Ready" (which requires 3 Vorlon marks) he could play it if Delenn had 2 att ached Vorlon marks and Lennier had 1 mark. Marks on neutralized characters do count toward a faction's total number of marks, and they may be manipulated, purged, etc. as usual. A faction cannot have both Shadow and Vorlon marks. If one of these marks is a lready attached to a character in one faction, any effect attaching an opposing mark to any character in the same faction is ignored. The source of any individual mark is not recorded. If a character is cut off from a source of a mark (for example, if a fa ction switches agendas or if an aftermath or enhancement is discarded or blanked) then that character must purge a mark of that type. This could, of course, result in purging more than one mark. If the character has no marks of that type to purge, then he suffers no additional penalty. This applies to cards with a temporary effect, or cards which provide a lasting effect while they remain in play; enhancements, ongoing agenda effects, aftermaths, etc. Many events, such as Contact with Shadows, provide a per manent mark and do not remain in play. A character with such a mark cannot be "cut off' from its source. To restate, if a card that provides a mark is discarded, its target must purge a mark of that type. Included in Starter Decks for the Great War expansi on is a sheet of counters which may be used to track a character's marks. Discards Sometimes a card is discarded from a player's hand, due to a card effect or a voluntary discard. Other cards have their effect expire and are placed on the discard pile; not ably, events, contingencies, aftermaths (including "discard after play" aftermaths) and conflicts which have been resolved or cancelled. Finally, cards can be "discarded from play", for example, supporting characters who have been neutralized and any after maths or enhancements attached to that character. Another example of Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 26 discarded from play includes any card effect which requires that a card be discarded to activate it (such cards must be in play for their effect to occur, they cannot simply be discarded from a player's hand). Any time a player must put more than one card on his discard pile at a time, he may choose the order in which he will stack the cards. Cards are placed in the discard pile of the same player in whose deck they began the game, regardl ess of which faction may have controlled them prior to being discarded. Bonuses and Blanking Bonuses (including marks) provided by playing an agenda (and some other cards), or which occur "while" some effect is maintained, expire when the card is discarded , replaced or blanked. This also applies to bonuses in which you "count" the status of something. Bonuses which occur "when" you meet a certain condition are permanent, you retain their effect even if the agenda is discarded or blanked. Some examples: with "Imperialism" whenever you conquer a location you gain 2 influence. This effect is permanent, even if the agenda is later lost. However, the ability to use captured locations as if they were your own is provided while Imperialism is in play: you could not make use of this effect if you changed your agenda. With "Maintain the Peace'; tokens are placed on the agenda at the end of some turns; such tokens would not be removed if the agenda were blanked (though they would be removed with the agenda if it were t o be discarded). Cumulative Effects To determine whether an effect is cumulative, read the text closely. If 2 cards cause a character to "draw 2 cards instead of 1", for example, a player would draw 2 cards, not 3 or 4. If, on the other hand, two cards say to "draw an additional card during the draw round" then that card would be cumulative with any other card. (If a player had 2 of each of the previous types of cards affecting him, he would then draw 4 cards, 2 instead of 1, and 2 more additional cards). R ules of Precedence This rulebook contains the standard rules of game play. This rulebook is version 1.3. Any rulebook containing a higher "version number" takes precedence over these rules, unless all players agree to play by an earlier version of the rule book. Except for the standard rules which govern how and when an ambassador card may leave play, the text written on any game card takes precedence over the standard rules and may override anything written in this book. Some rules specify that a card "cann ot" be used to perform an action. In this case, other cards cannot permit them to perform that action. E.g., "Luis Santiago" cannot become an Inner Circle character. A card which allows you to promote any character to the Inner Circle would still not enabl e you to make Luis Santiago an Inner Circle character. The restriction itself must be removed before he can be promoted, he cannot be promoted while the restriction is in effect. (For example, the card could say "removes any restriction against elevating a character to the Inner Circle", as opposed to "promote any character to your Inner Circle".) For normal play, "Tournament" rules are optional. However, when used, the most current "Tournament" rules take precedence over any other rules or card text previo usly published and are the only rules valid for participants in officially sanctioned B5 CCG tournaments. The Tournament rules are revised and updated periodically and are regularly provided to members of the B5 CCG player's organization (Zeta Squadron) as well as via our web site. Before playing the B5 CCG all players should agree in advance by which rules they will play; their own house rules, the Standard rules or Tournament rules. The League of Non - Aligned Worlds Change from Great War In version 1.2 of the rulebook, the Non - Aligned faction received a second starting character. Due to ongoing play balance considerations, this rule has been changed Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 27 Overview The Great War introduces the League of Non - Aligned Worlds as a new faction for the Babylon 5 CCG. Fo r most purposes, it is treated just like any other race. Exceptions and highlights will be noted here. The League is the fifth "standard" player race. Cards loyal to this race are designated as " Non - Aligned ". The League represents a diverse collection of s tarfaring species, each with its own needs, drives, governments and goals. Many Non - Aligned characters list a Species to which they belong as well as their race. Some of the species in the Non - Aligned worlds include the Drazi, the Pak'ma'ra, the Vree and t he Gaim. As an emerging leader in the League, you will lead your species first to preeminence among the "lesser" powers of the League. Then, you will forcibly carve the League a place among the greatest powers of the galaxy, whether by diplomacy, intrigue, military might, or by applying the special advantages conferred by your faction. This will not be an easy task, as the League starts at a disadvantage compared to the current galactic powers, and none of the major races are eager to surrender their place to "upstarts". But it is time for the declining powers to move aside, and make way for your young and vital species! Unlike the other standard races, there is no single "ambassador" for the League. Each species has their own representative to the rest of t he League. Therefore, a Non - Aligned player does not have any single specific starting ambassador. Instead, the player chooses a character listed as an ambassador for one of the Non - Aligned species, and that character becomes his starting ambassador for pla y. Due to the diversity of the Non - Aligned Worlds, a Non - Aligned player begins with a second species ambassador in his starting hand (in addition to the normal starting hand of 3 cards). Due to the fragmented nature of the League, Non - Aligned unrest begins at 2, rather than 1. Setup for Multiple Non - Aligned Factions If there is more than one Non - Aligned player, each player in turn chooses a starting ambassador. After this is done, the Non - Aligned Players choose the remaining 4 cards for their opening hand. Reminder : The terms species and race are not interchangeable. No matter their species, any "Non - Aligned Character" is a member of the Non - Aligned race. Species' Ambassador versus Faction Ambassador Ambassador, in the card text, is a specific game term whic h refers to the leader of a faction. There will usually be more than one Non - Aligned character in play who is labeled as an ambassador for a species. Cards which refer to an ambassador apply to a FACTION's ambassador only, not to Non - Aligned characters who happen to be the ambassador for a species. Think of the faction ambassador as the spokesman for the rest of the faction. For example, the conflict Psi Attack cannot target an ambassador. If a faction's ambassador is She'lah, then She'lah cannot be targete d. But, Vlur/Nhar, who was sponsored later, is still a valid target despite having the title "Pak'ma'ra Ambassador". A Non - Aligned ambassador's assistant can provide the ambassador's assistant bonus to any species' ambassador, but only within the same fact ion. The League, at the time Babylon 5 begins operations, is divided and relatively weak. Tensions between the League and all major races begin at 2. Many league races are predisposed to favor the Humans, who aided the League in the Dilgar war, and others fear the aggressively expansionist Narn. The Centauri are viewed with disfavor, as the declining Centauri Republic once dominated many of the now - independent Non - Aligned worlds. The Minbari have often been isolationist, and little is known of their true go als. Still, though these sentiments are common, there is no real consensus among the many species of the League. The Humans have suffered setbacks, and some resent the parental attitude they take toward the League worlds... and the growing anti - alien senti ment expressed by some members of the Earth Alliance government. And though the League has no goodwill toward the other major races, they are not individually prepared to defend themselves against an aggressive major star power. It will be the task of any Non - Aligned player to change the current state of affairs, to unite the League, and to choose who will be a friend and who an enemy to the united strength of the League worlds. The League as a whole has one vote on the Babylon 5 council, which can only be cast to break a tie. If the voting is ever tied after the five races (including the Vorlons) have cast their votes or abstained, the League vote must be called. Each player casts one vote for each Non - Aligned character in their faction Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 28 who is a "Species A mbassador". If the vote is a tie, the League abstains. Otherwise, the League vote is cast in accordance with the majority vote of the species' ambassadors. Summary Starting Ambassador - Any 1 "Species Ambassador" Opening Hand - Standard 3 cards + Starting Ambassador, and 1 additional "Species Ambassador" not chosen as a Starting Ambassador Starting Unrest - 2 Starting Tensions - 2 toward each other race Voting - Tie breaking vote only, requires League vote Alternate Factions The Great War expansion introduc es the Home Factions, or Opposing Factions, and more general rules which allow more than one player to play a faction of the same race. All rules in this section apply to games that involve more than one player of the same race. They need not be used if yo ur group is not playing with alternate factions. The Great War establishes one alternate faction for each race (in addition to adding the League of Non - Aligned Worlds as a played race), which allows for games of up to ten (or more) players at a time! These alternate factions can be used without any player running the normal B5 faction of that race, so long as your game group (or the official B5 event) permits use of alternate factions. Those of you who wish to play such a large and elaborate game should be aware that playtesting has shown that each additional player added to a game usually increases the time required to play to a conclusion by an increasing amount. If your current four player games take 2 hours to finish, adding a fifth player may add, for e xample, forty - five minutes to the length of your average game, and the sixth may add a full hour. However, much of this is due to the added player interaction provided by the additional players; if you have the time, you may find you enjoy yourself even mo re.. for a longer period of time. Also, playing "fast and loose" can counter this to some extent, so you may wish to use the "fast and loose" rules whenever possible in extremely large games. Home Faction Leaders Race Alternate Ambassador Centauri Lord Ref a Human William Morgan Clark Minbari Neroon Narn Na'Far Non - Aligned Any Species Ambassador The Home Factions If playing with Home Factions, players will have to decide among themselves who will play which position. Each Home Faction represents a cabal of c haracters whose sympathies and goals differ from the faction led by their race's ambassador to Babylon 5. These factions are a power in their own right within their race, in some cases much more so than those who follow the ideals represented by the ambass adors to the last of the Babylon stations. Vice - President Clark leads a faction which seeks to secure Humanity's position in the galaxy; they are willing to use whatever methods are most effective to accomplish their goals regardless of morality. Neroon is a rising star in the Warrior Caste, and is eloquent in expressing their discontent with the religious "superstition" which brought the Earth Minbari war to such a bitter end. Lord Refa is from an old and noble house in the Centauri Republic, and is even more impatient than Londo to see the Republic restored to its rightful position of dominance.. .with House Refa elevated to a position of prominence, of course. Finally, Na'Far, while not initially a member of the Narn Kha'Ri, is deeply concerned for the w ellbeing of his people. He is willing to use methods deemed distasteful by other Narns if it will only advance their cause... or alleviate their suffering; and he gives voice to feelings expressed by many of his race, yet often under - appreciated by the cur rent ruling body. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 29 The Non - Aligned race is easily adapted to more than one faction. Designate a first and second (and third, etc., if necessary) Non - Aligned player. The first player chooses his starting ambassador. Then, each other player chooses an ambassa dor from among the species ambassadors not already chosen by another player. After each Non - Aligned player has a starting ambassador, the player who chose his ambassador last chooses his secondary starting character. Each player chooses a secondary charac ter in the reverse order of the selection of ambassadors. Dual Races A dual race is any race represented by more than one player faction. "Ambassador" Each faction is led by a character. This character is referred to as an ambassador, but there are some di fferences between the ambassadors of an alternate faction and the normal factions. Note that alternate faction ambassadors do have all the protections, cannot be discarded, are the primary targets of many aftermaths, etc. in the same fashion as any other a mbassador. Alternate faction ambassadors of the four major races cannot make use of the normal ambassador's assistant to their race. As discussed below, alternate faction ambassadors do not have a vote on the Babylon 5 Council. The "alternate starting amba ssador" version of each character cannot be sponsored, and the normal version of these characters can only be sponsored if the Starting Ambassador version was not used in the same game. Home Faction ambassadors cannot request asylum. If their faction uncon ditionally surrenders, they are removed from the game. Tension and Unrest Each faction has its own unrest value. This represents government and/or public hostility to the policies of that faction. Each race, as a whole, has a tension level toward each othe r race. In addition, each faction has a tension toward each other faction of the same race. If tensions between factions of the same race grow, the race could be plunged into a state of Civil War (see below). Tension of each faction of a race toward other factions of that race begins at 2. While tension between 2 factions of the same race is at 3 or less (and while the race is not in a state of Civil War), those factions have an automatic state of Non - Aggression between them. This means that they cannot tar get one another with Military conflicts and their fleets cannot attack each other. Voting Only the actual ambassadors to Babylon 5 have a seat on the Babylon 5 council. Players of an alternate faction do NOT get to vote. This is the case even if the Babylo n 5 ambassador for their race is not in play; without direct representation on the Babylon 5 council, a race's opinion is not heard. Players of alternate factions who control Non - Aligned Species' Ambassadors will still cast the vote for that ambassador if the League is called upon to make a decision, however. Joint Effects Unless otherwise specified, if a race is not in Civil War, all military conflicts which target a player of that race which can cause an influence loss to the target cause the loss to each faction of the target race. If a faction is in Civil War, they are treated as separate races for military conflicts. Cards which affect, for example, "characters of your race" apply to them no matter their faction (just as they do for non - alternate factio n games). One important note is that if a card increases one race's unrest, it would increase the unrest of all factions of that race, but if it increases one player's unrest it only increases the unrest of that specific faction. States If a state exists b etween two races, at least one of which is a dual race, the state benefits all factions of those races. If the state provides a benefit to one race, then each faction receives the benefit as if they Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 30 were the only faction of that race. If a benefit is added based on the influence of a faction of a dual race (for instance, in the case of the Alliance card) then the benefit is based on the average influence of all factions of that race. Civil War If the tension of any faction toward another faction of the same race is at 5 at the end of any turn, then that faction could play a "Declaration of War". This causes every faction of the race to enter a state of Civil War. Any other effect which triggers a war between two (or more) factions of the same race has also i nitiates this state of Civil War. The unrest of every faction of a race increases by 1 when a race enters Civil War. Each faction of a race in Civil War is in a state of War with each other faction of that race. When playing cards which end a war, if there are more than two factions in a race in Civil War, the card to end the war must be played so as to end the conflict between the two factions with the highest (sum of) tensions toward each other. There is an exception to this rule, however; if a card would end a war you are involved in, it must target the other faction of your race who has the highest tension toward you. For either case, if there are multiple possible choices due to a tie, the player of the card may choose. If the war ends, the Civil War en ds; no faction of that race is at war with any other faction of that race and the unrest of every faction of that race is lowered by 1. Once a race enters a state of Civil War, its various factions are from that point forward treated as separate races, for as long as the Civil War lasts. This applies to cards which alter tensions, influence (such as Military conflicts, as above), unrest, states, etc.; they will affect only one faction, determined by the player of the card. Cards which affect all cards of a given race no matter the faction (such as cards which allow a bonus to damage when attacking Minbari Fleets) and limitations on how many of a card can enter play (such as the limitation on racial fleets) remain in full effect. Each other race now has a ten sion toward each of the new "races" equal to their old tension toward the race as a whole. While in Civil War, tension for each "new race" is tracked individually. If the Civil War ends other than due to unconditional surrender, the tensions merge; average tension (rounded up) becomes the new tension for the reunified race. When a race enters a state of Civil War, it may have some ongoing states with other races (war, alliances, and so forth). Any state which would be cancelled if the two races were to go t o war is suppressed. It is treated as if the state never existed, any ongoing bonuses are ignored while either race is in Civil War. If the Civil War ends, these states are restored (they are once again active). Since a race in Civil War is treated as mult iple separate races, the opposite holds true for these states if they are entered into while a race is in Civil War. If the Civil War does not end due to unconditional surrender, the unified government does not feel obliged to honor agreements signed by br eakaway factions. If the race reunifies, these states are suppressed for so long as the race is not in Civil War. If the factions once again split apart, they will find their old individual allies once again ready to support their cause. If only one factio n of a race in Civil War remains in play after a faction's unconditional surrender, the race is no longer in Civil War. The race's unrest is lowered as above. Any states which existed before the Civil War which affected the surviving faction are restored. Any states that were in effect while the race was in Civil War remain in effect if they could have begun had the non - Civil War states been in effect (so, the faction could not have 2 Free Trade states with the same faction, the one initiated while the race was in Civil War is cancelled). War, and any state not cancelled by war, transfer from a unified race to every breakaway faction, and from any breakaway faction to the unified race. Captured Locations If a faction ever conquers a location which is loyal t o their race, the location is considered "recaptured" and is immediately useful. This is true even if the owner of the card is a member of another faction, and the location was captured during a Civil War. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 31 Power & Victory (Optional Rule) A player of any ra ce has one less power for each other faction of his race. (So, if there were three human factions, each player's faction would suffer a - 2 power penalty.) In addition, to score a standard victory you must have at least 3 more power than any other player of your race. (Otherwise, your faction will not have control over the direction your race charts for the rest of the galaxy.) More Factions The rules permitting alternate factions can easily be adapted to allow even more factions of a given race to participa te. In future expansions, more factions will appear, for example the Psi Corps will appear as a separate faction. To add an additional faction immediately (without waiting for a new expansion to be issued), with agreement from the rest of your gaming group , you should designate a new character to be an alternate ambassador, as is done in Home Faction decks. Otherwise, use the Home Factions rules as if there were more than one new Home Faction. Psi Corps Psi Corps is an additional alternate faction available to the Humans. Originally created because of Humanity's fear and hatred of telepaths, many of Psi Corps' members now return the feelings of hostility toward non - telepathic Humans ("mundanes"). Certain elements within Psi Corps are even engaged in a method ical takeover of the entire Earth Alliance, subverting the government, military and economy piece by piece. To reflect the enormous schism between Human telepaths and non - telepaths, the sponsoring of Psi Corps cards by non - Psi Corps factions as well as the sponsoring of non - Psi Corps cards by the Psi Corps faction is governed by special rules involving Conspiracy Marks. The Psi Corps faction cannot sponsor non - Psi Corps cards loyal to any race unless it currently controls fewer such cards than it has Conspi racy Marks. This restriction does not apply to Neutral cards. Example: If Psi Corps has 2 Conspiracy Marks and controls the Human Homeworld Fleet, it could sponsor another non - Psi Corps card such as Earth, John Sheridan, the First Battle Fleet, or Na'Toth (paying double for Na'Toth because she is loyal to another race besides Human). After that, the faction will have 2 Conspiracy Marks and 2 non - Psi Corps cards, and therefore cannot sponsor any more non - Psi Corps cards. They could still sponsor Neutral card s, and cards such as groups, enhancements and agendas which are not restricted to a race, though not Human groups which are non - Psi Corps groups. If the faction gains more Conspiracy Marks or comes to control fewer non - Psi Corps cards, it can again sponsor additional non - Psi Corps cards. Also, if the faction loses a Conspiracy Mark it does not have to discard any of its non - Psi Corps cards; these rules only apply to the sponsoring of cards. Reciprocal rules apply to other factions that want to sponsor Psi C orps cards: they must have more Conspiracy Marks than Psi Corps cards. In addition, non - Human factions must follow all the usual requirements for sponsoring cards not loyal to their race (such as double costs). Negative Power Any card that refers to only c ounting influence as power cannot affect any player whose power is lower than his influence. Severed Dreams New Rules and Clarifications The following new rules and clarifications appear have been released as part of the Severed Dreams expansion. Reducin g Power Needed to Win If a card reduces the amount of power you need to win (such as Steal Babylon 4 ), and you have sufficient power under that new power requirement, you can win the game even if you do not have m ore power than any other player. You can thereby circumvent part of the Victory requirements outlined in the Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 32 standard rules. Note that this makes it possible for more than one player to score a victory simultaneously. Example: During the check for victory step of the Draw Round, Londo has 20 power and is thereby eligible to score a standard victory. However, John has the Steal Babylon 4 agenda and John's faction is targeted by 5 aftermaths that have Babylon 4 in t heir effect text, which reduces the power John needs to win by 5. Under normal conditions, John would require 21 power to win (at least 20 and more than any other player, including Londo), but his agenda reduces that number by 5, to 16 power. If John has 1 6 or more power, he and Londo each score a standard victory this turn. Kha'Ri Characters A Kha'Ri Character is any character with a bold - face Kha'Ri title in their effect text, including such titles as Representative of the Kha'Ri and Kha'Ri Intelligence Officer. Cards With No Printed Cost A card that does not have an orange cost bubble in the lower right hand corner has a cost that is undefined as far as other cards are concerned. Undefined does not mean zero. It is impossible to apply an undefined amoun t of influence or purge an undefined number of marks. Example: The effect text for Forces Collide states Apply influence equal to the cost of the enhancement, plus 1 per Vorlon Mark required to play the card. Discard th e enhancement. Therefore, you cannot use Forces Collide on enhancements with no printed cost bubble, such as Shadow Tech Upgrade , Recalled , or Forced Impairment . Cards that do not refer to cost specifically can target other cards with undefined costs. Example: Taunts and Games ' effect text reads Target a card another player sponsored since your last action. Apply the same amount of influence the player applied.... Since Taunts and Games does not refer to cost, it is legal to use it on cards with undefined costs, such as a sponsored agend a or the First United Fleet . Errata The following errata apply to cards in The Great War and Psi Corps expansions. All previous errata have been absorbed into the Deluxe revision of the cards. Wastelands The second sentence should now read: All characters you control inflict additional damage equal to their number of Conspiracy Marks during attacks. Dust Add the following sentence at the begi nning of the text: Target a character you control. Tualakh Vit'lokh In the first sentence, replace sponsored with put into play. Replace the second sentence with Tualakh Vit'lokh's other printed abilities become zero. Consultants Replace the first sentence with You may play Limited, non - Unique Character cards as Contingencies to this group. In the last sentence, replace At the end of the turn with At the end of the Resolution Roun d. Day of the Dead Replace the first sentence with All players may return to play one character from their discard pile into their supporting row. (place has been changed to return to play.) Sheridan Reborn The fourth sentence should begin Rotate Sheridan Reborn... Carrier Group The second sentence should read If one of your fleets participating in the same conflict... Non - Aligned Aide Replace permanently lose 1 Diplomacy with reduce this character's printed Diplomacy by one. Non - Aligned Agent Replace permanently lose 1 Intrigue with reduce this character's printed I ntrigue by one. Non - Aligned Captain Replace permanently lose 1 Leadership with reduce this character's printed Leadership by one. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 33 Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 34 Wheel of Fire New Rules and Clarifications The following new rules and clarifications appear have been released as part of the Wheel of Fire expansion. The Drakh You do not begin a game as the Drakh, but as one of the standard races, with a regular ambassador. You may switch to the Drakh later in the game using Drakh rule #2. Your first Drakh Ambassador can be sponsored by a non - Drakh character at printed cost, and is immediately promoted to your Inner Circle and becomes your faction Ambassador. He cannot be targeted by Taunts and Games . Your previous ambassador remains an Inner Circle character and can never be demoted. Drakh are opposed to Vorlon Marks in the same way that Rangers are opposed to Shadow Marks. Once you sponsor a Drakh Ambassador, you are now a Drakh Faction and may play Drakh cards a s if you were the Drakh race. However, your actual race remains as it was originally. You also retain any other special designations for your faction, such as Home Faction or Psi Corps. If your new (Drakh) ambassador leaves play, you immediately lose the g ame. Drakh ambassadors cannot seek asylum. A Drakh faction's ambassador cannot be targeted or affected by any effect that would change his position as ambassador. Drakh characters cannot sponsor any card that is loyal to a race other than the Drakh. Drakh cards can only be sponsored by Drakh characters. Drakh cards which can be sponsored cannot enter play by any other means, including Conscription , Soul Hunter s, New Priorities , etc. Drakh cards that are not sponsored (e.g. Events) can only be played by a Drakh faction/player. If a Drakh card is controlled by a non - Drakh faction, discard it immediately. The Drakh can only win if they fulfill the sp ecial victory conditions on a Drakh Agenda, or if all other players are eliminated. Many Drakh cards generate and/or use Chaos Tokens. Chaos Tokens are all identical, no matter which card created them. After each of his actions, including a pass action, a Drakh player may move any number of Chaos Tokens from any one card he controls to any one Drakh card he controls. Drakh cards cannot have their racial loyalty changed. The Drakh, as a race, cannot be targeted, named, or referred to in any way by another card. The Interstellar Alliance An ISA member, along with all other ISA members of that race, is expelled from the ISA if: he declares war on or starts a war with another ISA member; he enters a state of war with another ISA member because of an event or conflict he played; or he enters a state of war with another ISA member because of an Agenda he controlled. If the ISA exists: Once per turn, as an action, each player may discard the top card from his deck and forfeit his ability to draw cards during that turn's draw phase to take a card with ISA in its effect text from outside the game into his hand (in tournament play, this card must come from the player's reserve). This cannot allow him to exceed normal deck construction limits. If the ISA exists, whenever a Babylon 5 vote is called for, hold an ISA Vote instead. In an ISA Vote, each player who is an ISA member gets one vote. The ISA Founder calls the vote order. Cards that affect or refer to Babylon 5 votes do not affect ISA votes. ISA cards (car ds that have ISA in boldface) cannot be played unless the ISA is in existence. Additional Rules and Clarifications Each race may only have one Homeworld for that race in play at any given time (the Homeworld card's name is irrelevant). If a card already in play becomes your ambassador, and your previous ambassador remains in play, you must transfer to the new ambassador all cards which must target an ambassador. After searching or looking through your deck, always reshuffle unless otherwise instructed by a card. Only one copy of a given Contingency may be revealed per each trigger. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 35 Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 36 Glossary Attack during a conflict - If you make an attack and thereby become a participant in a conflict (the same conflict in which your target is a participant) then you have made an attack during that conflict. If you use another card ability to make an attack and do not become a conflict participant (for example, if you use the special ability of an Expeditionary Fleet) then even if a conflict is ongoing and your target is involved in a conflict you did not make an attack during (or within) the conflict. Base ability - A character's base ability score is equal to what his ability would be at the beginning of a turn if all cards in play were readied and all characters in play were fully healed. Boldface - Text on a card that is in boldface can never be blanked. Canceled - A conflict which is canceled does not resolve. Any conflict which does not resolve on the turn it is initiated (or which is, for some reason, declared without being initiated) is canceled unless a card specifically instructs that it will continue beyond the turn in which it began. A canceled conflict card is placed on the discard pile instead of resolving. Cannot - If a rule, on a card or otherwise, st ates that an action "cannot" take place, then the restriction overrides any general enabling effect. For example, if a card cannot be promoted to the inner circle, you cannot use a card which lets you promote any character to the inner circle to promote th at card. To overcome a "cannot" restriction, the restriction must specifically be lifted; the language used must say something to the effect of "remove any restrictions on promoting the character"; the effect that is preventing promotion must be removed. Controller - A character, group, fleet or location is usually a member of a faction. The player of that faction is that card's controller. Whoever played the card is the controller of any enhancement, aftermath or contingency. Cost Reductions - Some cards provide a bonus or discount to the cost of a card. If a card has a level of effect determined by the cost paid when playing the card, any discounts can be used to enhance the effect. Damage - Unless otherwise specified, "damage" always refers to normal d amage and not severe damage. Damage Resistance - A card with "damage resistance" deducts the specified amount from the total damage it suffers from each attack. Double, etc. - Changes to a character's abilities are applied in sequence as they occur. An effect that has several simultaneous modifiers applies multipliers (halving, doubling, etc.) before additive changes. This generally occurs when figuring sponsoring costs or damage from an attack. So, a character who is affected by both "Convincing Words" and "Body Armor" who is then attacked halves the damage before subtracting 1. Free - Especially, "sponsor for free". If you are permitted to sponsor a card for free you may do so immediately, no matter what round it is, for no influence cost and without r otating a sponsoring character. You must meet any other restrictions, however; you may not, for example, "sponsor for free" a limited character who is already in play. Global - A "global" aftermath or enhancement targets everything in the game. Since only one aftermath or enhancement can affect a target at a time, only one of each "global" enhancement or aftermath may be in play at a time. An aftermath without a specific target (for example, Wear and Tear) is considered to be Global. Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 37 Influence Rating - A player's total influence available each turn. This is the influence component of a player's power. Gains and losses of influence alter a player's Influence Rating; applying influence does not. Irrevocable - A card that is irrevocable cannot be negated, c ancelled, blanked nor can it have its effects reversed. It cannot be targeted by a card that would directly cause it to be discarded. Limited - Only one of any "Limited" character may be in play at a time. Characters, groups, locations and fleets are assu med to be limited unless otherwise specified. If a second copy of a limited card is determined to be in play, unless some game effect specifically allows it to be in play, the additional copy is discarded (for example, if 2 players initiate the same limite d conflict on the same turn). Unique cards are always limited. Multiple - More than one copy of a "Multiple" card can be in play at the same time. This term lets you know that a specific character, fleet, location or group is not "Limited". Other card typ es are assumed to be multiple if they do not state otherwise, for example, events, enhancements and conflicts. Mundane - A character with a Psi of zero who would have a Psi of zero even if fully healed. Negate - A conflict which is negated is cancelled (see above). An event or other effect which is negated is prevented from occurring, and any stated effects are ignored. Owner - The player from whose deck a card began the game (including the starting hand, of course) is the owner of that card. A card whi ch must go to the discard pile goes to its owner's discard pile. A card which goes into a player's hand always goes into the hand of the owner, even if it says to place it into "your hand". Participant - A card becomes a conflict participant by supporting , opposing, or attacking during a conflict, and then becomes a legal target for attacks. A leader of a participant fleet is also considered a conflict participant, but does not become a legal target for attacks during that conflict. An aftermath that lists "participant" as one of its play conditions can target any faction (or cards within that faction) that had a participant card in the conflict. If it does not say "participant" it can only affect the Initiator's faction. Psi - A character's Psi ability sc ore in the Babylon 5 CCG will not necessarily have the same numerical value as their P - rating in the television show. Two people can be born with the same P - rating, but the one who has training and experience with using his telepathic abilities will be mor e capable, more powerful, and will therefore be represented in the CCG with a higher ability score. Purge - This term is used to instruct you to remove a mark which has been attached to a character. Ranger - Any faction that has Shadow Marks cannot spons or a Ranger card, and none of their cards can gain the Ranger trait. Any faction that has a Ranger card cannot gain Shadow Marks. Ranger One - Only one character at a time may have the game text Ranger One . Until that character leaves play, or loses the t ext Ranger One, no other character may become Ranger One, and no character with Ranger One in his game text can enter play. Ready - A card or character is ready when it is face - up (unneutralized) and not rotated. A neutralized card is only considered read y for healing actions and for card effects which specifically consider neutralized cards to be ready. Removed from the Game - If a card is removed from the game (for example, if it is replaced), the card being removed should be set aside, indicating that it is out of play and may not return to the game by any means. Other copies of multiple cards, for example, agendas, may reenter play; however, any copy of a Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 38 limited card which has been removed from the game cannot ever reenter play. If instructed to remov e a card from the game, this effect occurs even if no copies of that card are currently in play. Replace - Some cards instruct you to "Replace" one card with another. When you replace a card, the card being replaced is removed from the game (see above). Requirements - Many cards have specific requirements to be played. Unless the requirements of a card are met, the card cannot be played. The following are some examples of requirements: Apply or lose influence; damage, neutralize, rotate or discard a card y ou control; purge a mark from a card you control; control a certain number of marks, character types, fleets, etc.; lose power; designate a legal target as specified by the card. Shuffle your deck - When instructed to shuffle your deck, you do not shuffle the discard pile into the deck unless specifically instructed to do so. States - Two races (or, on occasion, factions) can have a "state" between them. The most common example is a state of War. In most cases, a card which initiates a state will also ind icate the primary effects of such a state. However, some cards can only be played if a faction or race is in a specific state with another faction or race. An example is "Trade Windfall" which can only be played if a target faction's race is in a state of Free Trade with another race. If 2 races enter a state of war, any other states between the two races immediately end. Teep or Telepath - A character who would have a Psi greater than zero if fully healed. Transfer - If you are instructed to transfer inf luence to another player (or entity, such as the Shadows), then you lose 1 influence and they gain 1 influence. You cannot transfer influence if your Influence Rating would then fall below 3. Uncontested - A conflict is uncontested when the initiator wins the conflict and no participant in the conflict (as of resolution) attacked during or opposed the conflict. Unique - A unique card may only enter play once per game. Unique cards represent events or actions that can only take place once in the storyline of the galaxy, such as attempting to gain control of "The Great Machine". Used As - Normally, no ability may be used to attack another ability. However, if a card states that one ability may be used as another, the character acts as if he had the new abil ity at the same level as his old ability for the rest of the turn. Note, however, that this is NOT the same as using a non - standard ability within a given conflict. An example: The Humans initiate a Kidnapping (Intrigue) conflict targeting Delenn. General Hague supports the conflict with 3 Intrigue. The Minbari plays Level the Playing Field on Kalain, which allows him to use Leadership within an Intrigue conflict. Kalain cannot attack General Hague, since to make an attack he would have to use Intrigue (the ability General Hague used in the conflict). As the next Minbari action, Kalain opposes the kidnapping conflict (using his 4 Leadership). Sinclair can now attack Kalain using Leadership, the same ability Kalain used in the conflict. A Human Agent could no t attack Kalain using Intrigue, since Kalain did not use Intrigue, even though the conflict is an Intrigue conflict. Won - A conflict is only "Won" when the initiator has more support than opposition (in the case of most conflicts) or more support than an y other side (for non - opposable, support multiple side conflicts). If any other side has at least as much support as the initiator, or if opposition is greater than or equal to support, then the owner "Lost" the conflict. You or Your - "You" refers to the controller of a card. A "conflict targeting you" includes any conflict targeting you (the player), your race, your faction, or any card(s) in your faction. There is one exception: if an enhancement targets a card in another faction, or is a faction enhanc ement that is played on another Babylon 5 CCG - Psi Corps - v 1.3b 39 faction, then "you" no longer refers to the controller of the card. Instead, "you" then refers to the target's faction. For example, if the Narn player sponsors the Mines faction enhancement and targets the Minbari faction, and then the two races went to war, the Narn fleets would be damaged by the minefield while the Minbari fleets would not. One question we've had is how to play a Won aftermath which says to target your ambassador. You play this card only when you are the i nitiator of a conflict, and you win the conflict. Contacting Us There are a variety of ways to contact us. Our main address is: Precedence Entertainment P.O. Box 28397 Tempe, AZ 85285 Retailer / Prec - Rep Hotline: 1 - 888 - 256 - 4955 Website: www.eternity.com R ules Questions and Support If you have a rules question, please phrase it so it may be answered with a Yes or No if possible. Check our website above first, and if you can't find your answer please email us Babylon 5 CCG question to: Kosh@eternity.com You can also write to us at the above address. If you have any other issues with your product, or to submit new card ideas, rules, or setups, please email those to support@eternity.com or you can write to us at the above address. Submissions become the property of Precedence Entertainment and may be used without permission or compensation to the submitter. Who knows, maybe you'll see your idea appear in a future edition, expansion, or on our web site! Prec - Reps Demo - Tourney Program Precedence product events include demonstrations, sanctioned tournaments, convention support and more! The Pr ec Reps are a group of specially selected volunteer Precedence Representatives who arrange in - store demonstrations and judge officially sanctioned Babylon 5 CCG tournaments around the world. Both retailers and fans that participate in the Prec - Reps progra m receive numerous benefits. If you are looking for information about tournaments or demonstrations, if you are interested in becoming a Prec - Rep, or if you are a retailer or game club that is interested in sponsoring or finding a Prec - Rep in your area, p lease visit our website, write to us at the address above, or email us at precreps@eternity.com -- Contact us today! https://www.vintageccg.com/download-rulebooks/ Precedence Entertainment Friday, December 22, 2000 6:18:20 PM Friday, December 22, 2000 6:18:20 PM Microsoft Word Babylon 5; TCG; CCG; Cardgame; Collectible; rules; rulebook; book; instructions; manual D:20231023133210+02'00' Acrobat PDFWriter 3.02 for Windows The Babylon 5 Collectible Card Game ("B5 CCG") is a game for two to five players (or more, using the alternate faction rules). Each player chooses a different Race (Narn, Centauri, Minbari, Human or the League of Non-Aligned Worlds) and is in control of the ambassador of this race. With this ambassador you will build a Faction, then set an Agenda for your Faction to pursue. Babylon 5 CCG Rulebook